How do you get to the South Pole?

Step 0) 

Fly commercial to Christchurch, NZ - In my case, I left from CVG (the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky airport) to DFW (Dallas/Fort Worth) on Friday, Jan 1.  
That was a 3-hour flight, and then I had a 4-hour layover in Dallas.  Next up, the longest flight available then available (though it was overtaken in February by a new route 
from Singapore airlines), 17 hours from Dallas to Sydney, where I arrived at 6 am on Jan 3 (nearly a day for 
the flight itself, plus we crossed the international dateline).  I had a 13-hour layover in Sydney, but fortunately I had an Australian entry visa, so 
I was able to leave the airport and go explore Syndey for a while.  I was even able to meet up with a couple of Madison friends who were in town on vacation.  Back at the airport, 
it's on to New Zealand, another 3-hour flight, arriving in Christchurch just before midnight on Jan 3.   For those of you keeping score at home, that's 23 hours on a plane and 
40 hours of travel time (and that's only step 0).  After clearing security, we caught a shuttle to our hotel near downtown Christchurch.  

Step 1) 

Clothing Distribution - Next up, at 8:15 on Jan 4, we got back on the shuttle to go back to the airport (or rather, right next to the airport) where the USAP 
clothing distribution center (CDC) is located and where we receive our ECW (extreme cold weather gear).  Boots, boot liners, fleece pants, a fleece shirt, a heavy jacket, a hood, a light jacket, a parka, insulated Carhartt overalls, 
wind breaker overalls, several pairs of gloves and glove liners, two pairs of mittens, a hat, ski goggles, a neck gaiter, and a balaclava later, I was geared up and ready to go.  
We re-packed our gear with our new ECW, and headed back into Christchurch for an afternoon of exploring. 

Step 2) 

Fly to McMurdo - A shuttle picked us up at 5:45 the next morning to go back to the airport once again.  We're required to wear part of our ECW on the plane, so we change clothes, 
make any final re-packing adjustments, and get in line to check in.  At checkin, they do normal air-travel things like check passports, but also unusual things like weigh not only your 
bags, but also you wearing all your gear.  They need to know the exact weight of the passengers and bags so they know how much fuel they need and how many passengers can fit.  At this 
point you surrender your checked bags.  I had two regular checked bags (one full of the ECW I didn't have to wear on the plane, and one with my personal possessions), plus one "boomerang bag"
which is the only one you get back if your flight gets cancelled after that point, or if your get on the flight but have to turn back part way there (aka "boomerang") because of a change 
in weather.  The plane has to carry enough fuel to fly all the way there and all the way back, in case the weather changes for the worse very shortly before landing.  In our case that 
was an especially large amount of fuel because of strong headwinds.  They had to carry so much fuel that they were only able to take 2/3 the normal amount of cargo/passenger weight.  
Because of this, many people got bumped from their original flights.  We were supposed to be on the first flight of the day, but ended up on the second.  Many people who were supposed 
to be on the second got bumped to the third (which ended up being cancelled all together several hours later, oops).  

Then we watch a training/safety video, and wait for our flight.  Since we were bumped to the second flight, we had a fair amount of time to kill, so we went to the "tourist" part of the US 
Antarctic Center and ate in the cafe there.  
